Node js
javascript runtime environment that helps you run javascript code outsite of browser.
it is used for server side programming.
It’s commonly used for building backend services, APIs, and real-time applications like chat or gaming servers.

*node.js is not a language, library or framework.

feature
1. very popular
2. based on javascript no need to learn another language.


Steps to Run:
Install Node.js from nodejs.org.
Save the code in a file (e.g., server.js).
Run node server.js in the terminal.
Access the server at http://localhost:3000.


Node Repl (Read evaluate print loop)
.help gives us commands.


we can do many things with Node Repl but we can't manipulate the dom here.


global object

Node files

node fileName.js 

process: object provides info about, and control over the current node js process.
process.argv: return an array containing the command line arguments passed when the node js procces was launched.
process.release
process.cwd()


node first.js siraj

let arg=process.argv;

for(let i=2;i<arg.length;i++){
    console.log(arg[i]);
}



module.exports(requiring files)
is an object which allows us to export methods and properties to another file in the same directory.
how to use functions and properties of another file


require(): a builtin function to include external modules that exist in separate files.

module.exports : a special object, it contains all the things which one file want to send another file.

example
math.js
module.exports=123; 
export.js
const somevalue=require('./math');
console.log(somevalue);


access function
access values
access objects

return empty object if nothing is exported and we still require them it is by default.

it looks like basic but we when we have big project then we make modules


module.export(requiring directory)



NPM(node package Manager) (pre install with node)
npm is the standard package manager for NODE.js
1. library of packages (store)
2. command line tool(install package,version)
Package: already bultin code which is reused.


installing packages
npm install <package>
ex: npm install figlet


node_modules: The node modules folder contains every installed dependenc for your project
give example:
package-lock.json it records the exact version of every installed dependency, including its sub-dependencies and their versions.
give example:


using figlet

package.json
contains descriptive and functional metadata about a project such as a name, version and depndencies.

usage: if we have package.json file so we don't need node-modules and we can install node-modules using package.json information.


npm init: to create package.json for any directory.


package give me a joke



Global vs local installation
local: npm i package name



steps :
1. sudo chown -R $USER /user/local/lib/node_modules(note this commnd can't be used in windows)
but this one npm config set prefix C:\Users\<YourUsername>\npm-global
npm config set prefix "C:\Users\Super Galaxy\npm-global"


this command is written because we need admin access before installing globally.
Not writing this command will give us error

2. global: npm -g i package name
3. link: npm link package name


uninstall figlet globally:
npm uninstall -g figlet

Clear npm cache:
npm cache clean force

reinstall
npm install -g figlet

Try linking again:
npm link figlet

npm install figlet



require vs import
import{sum}from "./math.js"

we can't selectively load only the pieces we need with require but with import, we can selectively load only the pieces we need, which can save memeory.

loading is synchronous for require but can be asynchronous for import

